Hi, guys.
In this lesson, what I want to do is cover some of the fundamental concepts associated with identity
and access management.
So that is the service that provides users and groups and policies so that we can access our W.S. accounts
and we can do so securely.
Now, many of you will be new to W.S., but some of you may already be very familiar with these concepts.
But either way, I want to just cover them off because it is important knowledge for the exam and it
is also foundational knowledge which you need before we carry on with the rest of the course and also
with the practical, which is halfway through this section.
So we're gonna start off understanding users in groups and roles and policies and multifactor authentication.
And then we're gonna cry of free terror accounts.
And in that account, you will then use those skills.
We're going to create users.
We're going to create groups, we're going to create policies, and we're gonna set up multi factual
fense occasion.
So let's get on with looking at some of these core concepts.
So we'll start off with users.
So a user is an entity that represents a person or service.
So, for example, in my account, I might have a user named Neil and that will be my account and it's
only for my use.
And that means I can then use an account to log on to a W.S. and Access A.W. services.
Now you can associate a policy directly with an account.
So this is a list of permissions which says what this user is allowed to do on a W.S..
Next stop.
We have groups.
So a group is a collection of users and you can also apply a policy to a group.
So you might put your user into this group and you might put lots of other users into that group.
And so you might have a group for developers.
You might have a group for sysadmins.
You might have a group for, you know, all these different departments within your I.T. department.
And that way you can apply policies that are relevant to the people that are in that group so that are
relevant to the user accounts that you put into that group.
In other words, you're giving them the permissions they need to do their job.
Next up, we have something called a role.
And a role is something that is assumed by a trusted entity.
And you use this for delegation.
And that's a bit of a complex subject.
But I'll help to deconstruct that for you later on in this lesson.
Now, policies can also be applied to roles, and roles are essentially used by services and IWD.
So we'll see how that works.
Lots of times through this course.
So by the end of the course, you'll be very, very familiar with using roles.
So let's look at users in a bit more detail.
So as I mentioned before, I use it is an entity that represents a person or service.
So in this case, we've got users which are named.
So we've got Eric, Ethan and Andrea.
But you can also have a service so you can create a user account that can be used by a service rather
than a human being.
Now, a user account can be assigned an access key I.D. and a secret access key.
So this is called a keeper, and it's a way that they can then programmatically access the W.S. API,
the command line interface and the software development kit, as well as other tools.
You can also assign a password for access to the management console.
Now, by default, users cannot do anything in the account.
So if you create a user code, Andrea, and then you don't apply a policy and you just give her some
credentials and she logs onto her account, she won't be able to do anything in the account, the account
route, user credentials or the email address used to create the account and a password.
Now, later on in this section, we're going to create a free tier account and you'll use an email address
to sign up.
And that's what's called your route account.
Now, the root account has full administrative permissions and they cannot be restricted.
So it's a very powerful account and therefore the best practices to not use the route user credentials,
you should create a user account instead and log on is that user and give that user the permissions
they need.
And you should not use the region route user account.
You should also never share the route user credentials.
So better to create an IBM user, give that user permissions, administrative permissions, and then
use that user to log on.
And we'll do that as well in this section.
You should also enable multifactorial fense occasion.
And we'll talk more about MFA in this section so that you understand exactly what it is as well as setting
up in the hands on.
So occasionally you might use a user account to represent an application, and that's then known as
a service account.
You can have up to 5000 users per W.S. account and each account will have a friendly name, say, for
instance, Andrea.
And then an Amazon resource name, which uniquely identifies the resource across a W.S..
You should always create individual accounts for users.
And you should not share accounts.
And you can set a password policy to define the password length, complexity and so on.
Now let's move on to groups.
A group is a collection of users that has policies attached to them.
A group is not an identity and cannot be identified as a principal and an I am policy.
Now we'll see what this means later in the course.
But essentially it means that a group is not something that you can write into a permissions policy,
but you can take permissions policy and apply it to a group, use groups to assign permissions to users.
And you should always use the principle of least privilege is when you assign permissions.
You can't nest groups, so you can't have a group within a group.
We then have roles.
So a role is created and then assumed by a trusted entity, and it defines a set of permissions for
making servers requests in a W.S..
So, for example, you might have a role here that provides access to the S3 storage system or the Dinham
IDP Database Service or A.W. as LAMDA.
And this role is then provided those permissions to execute a lambda role, for example.
And then you can assign that to another A.W. service and that service is then able to start lamda and
make it work.
Now, we haven't covered Lambda yet, of course, or Dynamo DB or S3, but they'll all be covered in
the course.
So you can use ROVs to delegate permissions to resources for users and services without giving them
permanent credentials so they don't have a username and password.
And the way that works is they actually gain what's called temporary security credentials.
So you don't have to manage usernames and passwords.
This is all done automatically through an API, and it enables them to then gain those temporary credentials
and make the API calls they need to make those application programming interface calls that you used
to work with IWM services.
So you delegate using rolls.
There's no credentials.
And lastly, we have policies.
So the policies are the actual documents that define the permissions that you apply to users, groups
and roles.
So this is a policy document.
It has a list of permissions which are assigned to allow access to as free or Dinham IDB or A.W. as
Lambton.
The documents are written in the JavaScript object.
No capitation also known as Jason, and that includes key value pairs which consist of an attribute
and then a value.
Now all permissions are implicitly denied by default, and that means that if you do not grant permission
to something, then automatically it will be denied.
And the most restrictive policy is always applied.
There's something called the I am policy simulated tool and that can help you understand, test and
validate the effects of access control policies.
So is it all you can go in and kind of visually enter certain parameters into different parts of the
form and then you submit it and it will actually test your policy for you?
There's something else called the condition element and that can be used to apply conditional logic.
So you can say that a permissions policy applies only if the source IP address of the caller is a certain
value.
So that's users, groups, roles and policies.
And in the next lesson, we're gonna cover authentication methods.